New faces are expected to feature in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s soon-to-be-announced new members cabinet this evening. ANC Deputy President Paul Mashatile is likely to be announced as the country’s second-in-command, with Sihle Zikalala and ANC Deputy Secretary-General, Maropene Ramogokpa, set to make it to cabinet as ministers as well. Ministers including Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Lindiwe Sisulu and Deputy Phumulo Masusalle are said to be on the firing line for their fierce criticism of the president. Minister of Sports Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa and Minister in the Presidency responsible for Women, Children and people living with disability, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane are also seen as politically vulnerable after failing to make it to the ANC National Executive Committee. The minister of electricity is also set be announced. ATM calls for Ramaphosa to go The African Transformation Movement says President Ramaphosa must announce his resignation instead of  announcing a cabinet reshuffle. ATM national Spokesperson, Zama Ntshona, says Ramaphosa has disqualified himself to be the president of the country. “It cannot be that South Africa allows a constitutional delinquent and fiscal thief to reshuffle cabinet. At seven o’clock tonight, Mr Ramaphosa must simply tender his resignation and face the full wrath of the law.” Meanwhile, the Freedom Front Plus says it wants President Ramaphosa to reduce his cabinet when he announces the cabinet reshuffle. FF Plus MP, Wouter Wessels, says the current cabinet is bloated and needs to be streamlined to save taxpayers’ money. “The Freedom Front Plus expect the president to utilise this opportunity to make his cabinet smaller and more streamlined. We need a streamlined executive with better governance. At this stage, cabinet is too big. It’s costing taxpayers too much money. And it is not performing the functions of a streamlined and effective executive of this country. We need a streamlined executive and he needs to use this opportunity, and if he does not use this opportunity to cut more than half of the cabinet, he will not be acting in the best interest of South Africa.” President Cyril Ramaphosa will announce cabinet reshuffle at 7pm this evening:  Cabinet Reshuffle | The public share their views ahead of Ramaphosa’s anticipated changes: