Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan remains the only female head of state in the East African Community and Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. This comes as the world marks International Women’s Month. Two years ago, Hassan became Tanzania’s President during a traumatic time for the country. President John Magufuli died suddenly in office in March 2021, leaving the leadership of the nation’s 60 million people in her hands. Since then, President Hassan has enjoyed some success by carrying on her predecessor’s policies on the economy but has pivoted in some areas. This year, she lifted a 6-year ban on political rallies and last year, allowed pregnant girls to return to school. Earlier this year, in a tweet post she said, “In the last 100 days, our country has succeeded in building 8 000 secondary classrooms and their furniture throughout the country. We start using them next week. This historic step is a liberation for more than 400 000 students. No student will miss a school place due to lack of classes.” Katika siku 100 zilizopita nchi yetu imefanikiwa kujenga madarasa ya sekondari 8,000 na samani zake nchi nzima. Tunaanza kuyatumia juma lijalo. Hatua hii ya kihistoria ni ukombozi kwa wanafunzi zaidi ya 400,000. Hakuna mwanafunzi atayekosa nafasi ya shule kwa uhaba wa madarasa. pic.twitter.com/28pXCM9jaC — Samia Suluhu (@SuluhuSamia) January 2, 2023  A few days ago, President Hassan arrived in South Africa for the first time since becoming head of state in 2021 for an official state visit on March 16th. Tanzania and South Africa’s bilateral trade will be one of the main topics of discussion as the leaders of the two countries meet in Pretoria this month. Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan arrives in South Africa on a state visit in March:  2025 election As a matter of tradition, her party is expected to endorse her to vie for re-election in 2025. However, to get there, she may have to deal with a number of largely silent detractors who have not fully accepted her leadership because of her gender. On the bright side, Hassan’s presidency and those of other female leaders before her could be an inspiring change in Southern Africa. Namibia’s ruling party, South West Africa People’s Organisation (SWAPO) will set a new precedent by presenting a female presidential candidate for the country’s elections next year. -Reporting by SABC’s Isaac Lukando Namibia will have a woman president should SWAPO win elections in 2024 