Scores of mourners have gathered at the Thrive Church in Boksburg for the funeral service for 4 children who died in the gas tanker explosion on Christmas Eve. The Brits and Eales family lost 4 children in the tragedy that claimed 37 lives when a gas tanker exploded after it was trapped under a low bridge. Twelve of the deceased worked at the nearby Tambo Memorial hospital.  A memorial service was held on Friday (December 30th) in remembrance of the victims of the gas tanker explosion which took place on Christmas Eve in Boksburg, in Gauteng’s East Rand. Candles that will be lit at the #BoksburgMemorial service in memory of those who lost their lives following the #BoksburgExplosion. pic.twitter.com/XIX0rHn74l — CITY OF EKURHULENI (@City_Ekurhuleni) December 30, 2022  Their coffins were brought into the church in 4 identical hearses and were later transported to a private venue for cremation. A family friend, Estelle Dreyer says, “I know the kids because they were walking in the morning to school in the winter-bare feet from the Tambo Memorial to Boksburg north. And that’s how I knew them. And that’s how I met them and I started picking up the mother and the daughter and the son. And then one day when we were in the kitchen I said, the children are now big and the mother said yes I got 7 children. Then from then we started talking and said ok, I will phone you if I can’t pick you up.” Some of the children’s classmates in full school uniforms attended the funeral with sombre faces. Candle-lighting ceremony underway for people killed in gas tanker explosion  ‘It is really very sad’ “I am going to miss my friend a lot. He was a funny friend, very funny. I am going to miss him a lot,” says one of the children’s friend. Some of the mourners struggled to contain their emotions as the coffins of three Brits children and their cousin were brought before a church that was packed to capacity. One of the mourners says, “It is really very sad and touching personally. What can a parent do?” Sheriz Zefet of the Jewish Board of Deputies attended the funeral. “South Africa’s Jewish Board of Deputies through its partners on the ground and their network, the Mashishi Foundation and Madibansane Foundation here in South Africa have been working tirelessly since December to help those most affected by the tragedy. And we are here today to just offer support meet some of the families help prepare food for the funeral and this is for about 1200 people. So far with 10 families, the Mashishi Foundation has been working hard.” The Boksburg Bridge that was damaged remains a no-go area as investigations continue. The truck driver has since been released due to a lack of evidence. The Gauteng provincial government has estimated that damages at the hospital would exceed R18 million. Trucking company cleared by independent road transport auditor: Modidima Mannya 