Parents of learners from various parts of Mpumalanga are enraged by the Department of Education after being given a list of additional stationery to buy for their children. Apparently, teachers claim that the Department issued each pupil with inadequate exercise books. Some also claim that they are forced to pay R100 for security guards. While teaching and learning takes place on the first day of school at Mshadza High School, parents stand outside the school gate in protest to express their concerns. White Hazy Circuit School Governing Body (SGB) Chairperson, Mohammed Matola claims that some parents cannot afford to buy the additional stationery as some depend on social grants. Matola adds, “Our concerns as the SGB is that the Department has short supply the books for the learners, which is half of what they normally give them. So we were requested as parents to buy and add books to add because when you look at the books are too little. Check the matric and even grade 11, it is not enough.” Negative impact on learning Meanwhile, Mshadza’s SGB Chairperson, Griffies James says the shortage of stationery could have a negative impact on the studies of their children. “The challenge we are having is that the books that have been supplied this current year are not enough for our kids. So we took a decision to write to the parents to buy additional stationery for the kids so that we can continue with the programme of learning in our school.” Education’s Head of Department, Lucy Moyane has called on schools in the Province to refrain from forcing parents to buy additional stationery. “The Department this year indeed reduced the packs of stationery, but these packs are in line with the curriculum needs. Our subject specialist eventually determined these packs of stationary and indeed we want to call on all our schools not to make parents to buy additional stand stationery because this is adequate for the curriculum.” says Monyane. Meanwhile, a protest march planned by the concerned residents was unsuccessful. Back to school for inland provinces: Update from Limpopo 