The City of Cape Town says tourism to the city has recovered to pre-pandemic levels. Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Growth, James Vos, says Cape Town International Airport reported a recovery of 72% in domestic visitors and 98% in international visitors last year compared to the December 2019 festive period. Vos says this has been a great boost to the municipality’s economy. Vos says they will now continue focusing on the City’s Inclusive Economic Growth Strategy which aims to expand on the city’s existing economic growth policies around investment, small business development and workforce expansion initiatives. “Our focus will be on business retention and expansion, especially in the industries of green energy, manufacturing, tourism, financial services and business process outsourcing. As well as the development of the informal traders’ sector through our support programmes, workforce development.” Cape Town’s iconic minstrel parade The iconic Tweede Nuwe Jaar Minstrel Parade returns to Cape Town. The event has not been able to take place for two years due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Cape Malay choirs usher in New Year in Cape Town:  Minstrel competitions are also expected to take place throughout January. The chairperson of the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association, Muneeb Gambino, says they have put numerous safety measures in place. “People should come down. Of course, people should abide by the rules of large events – no alcohol or drugs are allowed. We should just really just try and stay in keeping with ushering in the New Year. We have done everything possible to make it a safe event for everyone, The City of Cape Town is a massive supporter of this event. It’s the people’s event, they should come down and own it and celebrate the New Year with us.” explains  Gambino. Mother City’s Tweede Nuwe Jaar Parade back after two years:  The City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security, Alderman JP Smith says, “We are incredibly excited to see these events return to our festive season calendar; not only for the benefit of the participants but also the thousands of spectators. Many visitors have come to know that a festive season visit to Cape Town is not complete without witnessing the street parades. For the first time in a number of years, Cape Town will usher in the new year on a traditional note, and we could not be happier.”