Africa should not be an arena for competition between world powers, China’s Foreign Minister Qin Gang said on Wednesday, opening a new headquarters for a pan-African health body at the start of five-country Africa tour. Qin visited facilities of the African Union in Addis Ababa, including the new headquarters of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. China financed the complex’s construction, as it previously did for the headquarters of the AU itself, also based in the Ethiopian capital. China has been Africa’s largest trading partner for over a  decade. It competes for influence with the United States which hosted leaders from 49 African countries last month as well as with former colonial powers such as Britain and France. “Africa should be a big stage for the international cooperation, not an arena for major countries competition,” Qi said at a news conference with AU Commission chair Moussa Faki. A trusted aide of President Xi Jinping and former ambassador to the United States, Qin was appointed foreign minister last month. His visit marks the 33rd consecutive year that Africa has been the destination of the Chinese foreign minister’s firs overseas tour of the calendar year. Qin met on Tuesday with Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and other government officials, and announced a partial cancellation of Ethiopia’s debt to China during the visit, though neither side provided details. Ethiopia has borrowed$13.7 billion from China since 2000 and has been seeking tore structure its debt to foreign lenders since 2021. Qin will also visit Egypt, Angola, Benin and Gabon over the next week. Paul Nantulya, a research associate at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, said the choice of countries reflected China’s diversity of interests in Africa. China has strong security ties to Egypt and Angola. Visiting Benin and Gabon shows ambitions to expand Beijing’s Belt and Roads infrastructure-building drive  long focused mainly on the Indian Ocean region  into western Africa, he told Voice of America radio.  China’s new Foreign Minister Qin Gang is starting his term with a weeklong trip to five African countries, the Foreign Ministry said Qin will visit Ethiopia, Gabon, Angola, Benin and Egypt this month from 9th to 16th. | @AJEnglish https://t.co/Yd0aeulYMe — Africa-China Reporting Project (@witschinaafrica) January 10, 2023 