The United Nations Secretary-General has launched an almost $400 million humanitarian funding appeal for earthquake-hit Syria, an initial amount expected to cover a period of three months. The UN has already released some $50 million from its Central Emergency Response Fund in response to the multiple earthquakes that have devastated large parts of Türkiye and its war-torn southern neighbour. The appeal comes after the UN on Monday welcomed a decision by the President of Syria to open two additional border crossing points from Türkiye into North Western Syria. UN appeals for nearly $400 million funding for Syria  The UN says close to 9 million people in Syria had been affected by the quake, appealing for critical funding to respond to the most pressing humanitarian needs over the next three months. “I am announcing that the United Nations is launching a $397 million humanitarian appeal for the people of earthquake-ravaged Syria. This will cover a period of 3 months. We are in the final stages of a similar appeal for Türkiye. In the immediate aftermath of the earthquakes, the United Nations rapidly provided $50 million through the Central Emergency Response Fund. But the needs are immense. The Syria effort brings together the entire UN system and humanitarian partners and will help secure desperately needed, life-saving relief for nearly 5 million Syrians – including shelter, healthcare, food and protection.” Guterres acknowledged that lifesaving aid had not been getting into Syria at the speed and scale required – calling the breadth of this disaster one of the worst in recent memory, including in Türkiye where, combined, more than 37 000 people had died. “One week after the devastating earthquakes, millions of people across the region are struggling for survival, homeless and in freezing temperatures. We are doing all we can to change this. But much more is needed. I have an urgent message to the international community: The human suffering from this epic natural disaster should not be made even worse by manmade obstacles – access, funding, and supplies. Aid must get through from all sides to all sides, through all routes – without any restrictions.” The single Bab al-Hawa crossing is now complemented by two additional crossings at Bab al-Salam and al-Ra’ee after an agreement between the UN Secretariat and the Syrian Government, just as the UN Security Council was weighing a resolution to demand additional crossings. “The two crossings are open. Movements are taking place. And we will see, of course, if the situation would change, we would adopt the necessary measures. But as I said: The crossings are open, and goods are flowing. (flash) Our position is very clear: All forms of access should be open, without restrictions.” The UN says the earthquake hit when humanitarian needs in the region were already at the highest level since the civil war began almost 12 years ago. 