African Transformation Movement leader, Vuyo Zungula, says Parliament should consider asking outgoing Eskom CEO, Andre de Ruyter, to reveal the names of ministers and politicians allegedly benefitting from the power utility. In an interview with another private television station, de Ruyter made damning allegations that the African National Congress (ANC) was using Eskom as a cash cow with the knowledge of some senior officials. Zungula says de Ruyter should appear before various portfolio committees in Parliament, stating that his allegations are very serious. “Mr de Ruyter can’t make startling revelations on the corruption in Eskom that is so systematic that senior politicians and top government officials (are) milking the state utility dry. He must be summoned to the portfolio committees in Parliament for him to account and for him to let Parliament know who are the ministers that turned a blind eye on corruption that is leading to load shedding…that is leading to Eskom being bailed out each and every year.” Lay charges The Congress of the People (COPE) is meanwhile calling on the outgoing CEO to be patriotic enough to lay criminal charges against those he implicated in corruption and sabotage at Eskom. COPE says de Ruyter’s sudden departure comes as no surprise. The party says he should expose the unnamed cabinet minister that he referred to as informing him that Eskom was being used to benefit the ANC. De Ruyter will leave Eskom immediately following a mutual agreement between him and the board. COPE National Spokesperson, Dennis Bloem, says: “We are not surprised by the sudden departure of Andre De Ruyter from Eskom. The allegations made by Andre de Ruyter are very serious and need to be investigated by the police. We expect Andre de Ruyter to be patriotic and expose this minister. The country is in a serious crisis because of this corrupt minister and his cabal. We expect that de Ruyter must go and lay criminal charges against this senior  cabinet minister and everyone who is involved in corruption and sabotage at Eskom.” De Ruyter resigned in December last year and was expected to remain at the helm until the end of next month to allow the board to find a replacement. In the video below, SABC News Economics Editor Tshepo Mongoai reacts to the news of his resignation as it was announced last year: 