President Cyril Ramaphosa says government will not change its National Energy Action Plan introduced in July last year. He says Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana will announce further plans to reduce load shedding such as the introduction of solar rooftops when he presents his Budget Speech next week. Ramaphosa responds to debate on his State of the Nation Address on Thursday. Government will not change its National Energy Action Plan: Ramaphosa  Load shedding and energy problems once again are under the spotlight. This, as the President moves to reassure the nation of the government’s plans to resolve the ongoing electricity crisis this year. “We need not need another plan. We need to accelerate the implementation of the plan that we already put to the nation in July last year. We have already taken a number of important steps to reduce the severity and frequency of load shedding. The measure which the Minister of Finance will announce in a week’s time in his budget will boost the rollout of rooftop solar by business and households,” says Ramaphosa. The President has also poured cold water over concerns about the imminent appointment of a minister responsible for electricity. “Some have suggested the appointment of the minister will confusion and fragmentation and it might also result in turf wards amongst ministers who deal with energy and Eskom. That is not the case,” Ramaphosa added. VIDEO: President Cyril Ramaphosa replies to SONA 2023 Debate He also dismissed criticism of the country’s disaster declaration, which the DA threatened to challenge in court. “We will ensure that environmental protection and technical standards are maintained, and that procurement is undertaken yes with transparency and proper oversight. We will use the state of disaster to rid of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles that stand in the way of urgently bringing new generation capacity onto the grid,” Ramaphosa explains. David Mabuza Ramaphosa publicly confirmed for the first time that his deputy in government, David Mabuza, would soon be leaving. “Deputy President David Mabuza has indicated he wants to step down from government and this is a request I am considering and attending to.” Ramophosa also thanked his security, saying he was unfazed by last week’s disruptions. “A journalist asked over the weekend whether I was ever terrified or scared I said no I wasn’t as it was largely due to the fact that I’ve really good protectors and I thank them.” The President has used his reply to call on lawmakers to find common solutions to the country’s problems. He has appealed to them to not throw stones nor portray the country as being in chaos. Ramaphosa says the country was hit by the covid-19 pandemic and was emerging from a period of state capture over the past five years of his presidency.