Rescuers in Turkiye pulled two women alive from the rubble of collapsed buildings after they had been trapped for 122 hours following the region’s deadliest quake in two decades, authorities said on Saturday. The death toll exceeded 24,150 across southern Turkiye and northwest Syria a day after Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said authorities should have reacted faster to Monday’s huge earthquake. One of the rescued women, Menekse Tabak, 70, was swaddled in a blanket while rescuers carried her to a waiting ambulance in the province of Kahramanmaras, images from state news agency Anadolu showed. The other was an injured 55-year-old, identified as Masallah Cicek, who was extricated from the debris of a collapsed building in Diyarbakir, the largest city in southeast Turkiye, the agency said. Sixty-seven people had been clawed from the rubble in the previous 24 hours, Turkish Vice President Fuat Oktay told reporters overnight, in efforts that drew in 31,000 rescuers across the affected region. About 80,000 people were being treated in hospital, while 1.05 million left homeless by the quakes huddled in temporary shelters, he added. “Our main goal is to ensure that they return to a normal life by delivering permanent housing to them within one year, and that they heal their pain as soon as possible,” Oktay said. With many left short of food in bleak winter conditions, questions are mounting for leaders of both countries over their response. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad made his first reported trip to affected areas since the quake, visiting a hospital in Aleppo with his wife Asma, state media said. His government approved deliveries of humanitarian aid across the front lines of the country’s 12-year civil war, a move that could speed help for millions of desperate people. [MUST WATCH] My report on the extent of the destruction following the #TurkeySyriaEarthquake.
The death toll keeps rising, its over 22 000.
We continue to be LIVE this morning in Turkiye on the #SABCNEWS channel. pic.twitter.com/AjTmpkLxbS — Chriselda Zozi Lewis (Babes Wendaba) (@Chriseldalewis) February 11, 2023  #TurkeySyriaEarthquake pic.twitter.com/xzwMWHA1NR — Chriselda Zozi Lewis (Babes Wendaba) (@Chriseldalewis) February 10, 2023 