Bandits spraying villages with bullets killing residents and setting buildings ablaze. Rampant cattle rustling and clashes between farmers and herders. These are among the litany of challenges confronting Sa’idu Ahmad, an electoral officer tasked with organising voting for Nigeria’s next president and members of parliament on February 25 in the northwestern state of Zamfara. ”The violence is so bad in some areas that 606 polling centres serving 287 373 voters nearly a fifth of the state’s total have been identified as not reachable and arrangements are being made for people to vote in larger towns,” Ahmad said. Nigeria’s election next week marks nearly a quarter century of democracy in Africa’s most populous nation, which in previous decades had become a byword for coups and military misrule. In some ways, it stands to be one of its most credible polls yet, thanks to an increasingly professional electoral commission and measures to curb fraudulent practices rife in many previous elections, such as serial voting and ballot-box stuffing. A law enacted last year provides for electronic voting machines and smart card readers to confirm voters are registered in a central database. Results from any polling centre where the ballots cast exceed the registered voters will not be counted. But in places where armed groups have killed, robbed and displaced thousands, the violence risks casting doubt on the credibility of the vote and, in the areas hit worst by insecurity, on whether it can take place at all. Militants behind a 13-year-old insurgency in the northeast are threatening to kill those who vote in areas they control. Industrial-scale banditry and kidnapping have displaced thousands from their voting constituencies in the northwest. Nigeria has 3.2 million internally displaced, according to government data. The electoral commission has promised they will be able to vote but concedes it has only made provisions for those in designated camps, which are mostly in the north east. 