A feud has erupted between a local taxi association in Mahikeng and landlords providing accommodation and transport for students at the University of the North West. The Mmabatho, Montshiwa, Mahikeng Taxi Association says it’s been excluded in an arrangement to transport students to and from their places of residence. It says that responsibility has been given to other taxi operators who do not have permits to transport people on the route next to the university. Members of the Association closed the intersections in front of the university, causing inconvenience for students and other motorists. Tensions were high as a local taxi association closed all roads leading to the North West University campus in Mahikeng. The bone of contention is the transportation of students. “They looked us over and instructed the landlords to buy their own vehicles. That’s when things went wrong. A vehicle should be given a route and a permit to operate. These vehicles operate without permits while I have to pay for my vehicle, that’s unfair,” says MMMR Taxi Association, Tumelo Kgasu. Parents and students had to find a way around the disruptions. “If the road is closed, for us as a parent it’s very hard for us today,” a Parent says. “It’s going to affect children who are traveling, for those who are staying off campus; it’s going to affect them academically. Especially when they have to come with public taxis, they won’t be able to be successful to come to classes,” a student explains. Warring parties have been urged to allow for a dialogue to resolve this issue. “We plead that you allow for the proposed meeting by the university to be given a chance and the board called,” says Zenzo Hlazo: Provincial Secretary: EFF student command. “We will even go as far as even getting the board, the people from transport safety board to come as well and answer the questions because today nobody will be able to answer your questions here. So, we will organize all stakeholders to answer all your questions,” says NWU Protection Service, Fortune Letsile. It’s unclear if the local taxi association will heed this call or not.