National Freedom Party (NFP) Parliamentary leader Ahmed Shaik Emam is calling on President Cyril Ramphosa to ensure that every South African receives a piece of land through local government structures. Shaik Emam made the call during the second day of the Joint Debate on Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address at the Cape Town City Hall. “Lastly on the issue of land, what stops us from providing every South African through your local government a piece of property which they can call home and give them back their property. Give them the services for water and sanitation …  but distribute it today to every South African family through every local government in the country.” Hon Shaik Emam appeals to the President to distribute pieces of land to every South Africans so that they can have their dignity back. #SONA2023 — Parliament of RSA (@ParliamentofRSA) February 15, 2023  Praise and criticism for President Ramaphosa continue on Day 2:  Members of Parliament continued with the second and final day of this year’s Sona debate in Cape Town. While much of the debate focused on local government, praise and criticism of the African National Congress (ANC) and President Cyril Ramaphosa was again repeated. The ANC opened the debate on a positive note. Chief Whip of the National Council of Provinces and ANC MP Seiso Mohai says President Cyril Ramaphosa has surpassed his target of mobilising international investment. “Mr President contrary to the sceptics, you have surpassed the target of mobilising international investment, especially for infrastructure development. As international standards, the rule of law and good governance are fundamental for global investment. Mr President, on this front, only the blind will fail to see how you have invested more energy and resources  in strengthening and re-purposing the criminal justice system in line with  its constitutional mandate of acting without  fear or favour in  the fight against corruption.” But the Democratic Alliance (DA) who bemoaned the high levels of crime in the country did not share this positive view on the State Of the Nation Address. DA MP Andrew Whitfield says, “South Africans want results Mr President not more broken promises … they will vote for in 2024 not more broken promises.” Hon Whitfield debates the #SONA2023 pic.twitter.com/wsuMRjSNE8 — Parliament of RSA (@ParliamentofRSA) February 15, 2023  The state of municipalities and the lack of service delivery by these government functions were also highlighted. SALGA’s Bheki Stofile says “You political parties you lock yourself in a room and cut the cake according to what is your interest at the time. The community is outside, locked outside there. When the service delivery is not rendered, the blame goes to the municipality. We are calling the government and calling parliament to act on this because it’s a problem that’s going to be with us for a very long time.” Meanwhile, IFP’s Mkhuleko Hlengwa says, “What is clear Mr President is that every time your ministers don’t perform instead of firing them you protect them by taking them into the Presidency. Be decisive Mr President, fire them!!! Don’t have a nanny cabinet, aussie nanny.” The leader of the ACDP, whose wife passed last month, thanked the President for coming to sympathise personally and spending time with the family during their time of bereavement. He said his wife was most concerned about the high levels of crime especially violations against women and children and blackouts in the country. ACDP leader Dr Kenneth Meshoe says, “Mr president it is very unfortunate to know that the very Eskom of today used to be the number one power utility in the world.” Full SONA Debate Day 2:  