The Department of Social Development in Limpopo has sent a team of social workers to assist families of the 21 victims killed in a bus crash outside Louis Trichardt in Limpopo on Monday. The Department of Transport’s Sindisiwe Chikunga says they are launching an investigation into the company that owns the bus. 21 people were tragically killed when a bus and a cash-in-transit van collided, resulting in scores of other injured passengers being taken to various hospitals in the Vhembe District The Deputy Minister visit the scene of the crash #N1NorthVictims pic.twitter.com/0Qx9SgCNX1 — Department of Transport (@Dotransport) February 15, 2023 Over 60 survivors were taken to various hospitals after sustaining severe injuries. Limpopo Social Development Spokesperson, Joshua Kwapa says, “We dispatched social workers there to provide psychosocial support to another counselling (sic) we are providing with those injured, who are at the hospital together with the physiologist; we are providing counselling to those families.” The families of those who died say they are still struggling to come to terms with what happened. One family member told SABC News, “We are very hurt by what happened. The person who perished is my sister’s husband and he was the breadwinner at home. We are appealing to the government to assist us to take care of the children.” “I am very hurt. I am asking the government to ensure that proper roads are built to avoid similar situations in the future,” another grieving family member added. Reprimanded driver The survivors of the crash told Chikunga that the bus driver was allegedly reprimanded by passengers for reckless driving before the accident happened. They told her that the bus was overloaded, with some passengers standing. The survivors also say the driver was overtaking in a dangerous zone when the head-on collision with the cash-in-transit vehicle occurred. They also added that the bus veered off the road before overturning multiple times in the valley. One of the survivors says, “We are always boarding this bus, but this time around it was overloaded and the driver started speeding and others started cheering when the driver overtook a truck caring sand, we heard a ‘baam’ sound and we rolled and tumbled over the hill.” Chikunga, who visited the survivors at Elim Hospital says the testimonies from the survivors suggest that the bus might have not been roadworthy. She says, “What they are saying is indicating that the bus might not be roadworthy, but we are definitely gonna do an investigations to get to what transpired, but definitely that’s what the investigation is about. They seem to be saying the bus driver was overtaking.” The drivers of both vehicles are among the survivors being treated in hospital. The families of the deceased have called on the government to assist with funeral arrangements. VIDEO: Bus crash in Limpopo kills 21 people 