The World Health Organisation (WHO) has expressed concern over the outbreak of measles in more than 20 countries, including South Africa. The National Department of Health, in partnership with the organisation, is on a mass vaccination drive to curb the spread. The provincial Department of Health in the Western Cape is encouraging everyone with children between the ages of 6 months and 15 years to get a booster shot. Routine immunisation campaigns are done every few years, but the COVID-19 pandemic hampered recent efforts. The latest outbreak is also affecting children older than 5 years, which is viewed as unusual. Measles is potentially fatal, especially for children that are immune compromised.  A measles consultant at the WHO, Dr Damene Alieyu says, “Measles is a killing disease and it also makes children blind after many years of infection so it is very very serious in countries where there are outbreaks the measles death rate could be extremely high, in some countries as high as 30% although this is not yet reporter in South Africa.” Five provinces in South Africa have reported cases. All caregivers are urged to ensure their children are immunised. Babies and young children who get routine vaccinations will also be eligible for a booster shot. Western Cape MEC for Health, Dr Nomafrench Mbombo says, “In the mainstream of the national programme they are getting it at 6 months and also repeated at 9 months and then continue with the others for the campaign which will end 31st March they are getting an extra dose so it means that if you had your 6 months, you will get a booster and then you’ll get again your 9 months, or if you’ve done both of them, you’re still going to get.” According to the WHO, routine immunisation programmes are performing below expectations. It also says many parents are reluctant or not well informed. At Kleinvlei, however, several caregivers brought their children to get shots. Parent, Yolanda Rangolie says, “It’s for his own health, and you never know, he had his vaccine already but this is just extra, a booster, for the child so it’s for his own health.” The national immunisation drive will run until the end of March, offering free shots to children up to the age of 15. Private health facilities and certain pharmacies also offer the vaccine. 